# Learn to Fish 

*January 12, 2018*

My first first week at Sparkbox was fantastic. It was easily the most memorable first week I've ever had at a job. The onboarding was smooth and organized and I really appreciated the chance to meet and interact with a lot different people throughout the day, during lunch, and at the special late afternoon dessert!

Seeing the whole organization drawn out on the wall was really helpful to get an overview of the different people at Sparkbox and their roles. I also _really_ dig the vibe of office space and the varied work environments. It makes it very comfortable to be able to move around depending on what you are working on, who you are working with, or what you feel like.

I spent the end of Week 1 and the majority of Week 2 setting up my computer, reading, journaling, and exploring Git and GitHub. I also spent some time thinking about and planning when and how I will work on the apprenticship curriculum. One thing that is important to me is to track what I am doing with my time and hold myself accountable for my learning. I am setting curriculum and personal goals at the beginning of each week and tracking them. Finally, I'm starting a *Today I Learned* section to help reinforce the small things and details of what I am learning every day.

* [Goals (12/15)](goals.md)

* [Today I Learned](today-i-learned/january.md)

---

## Reading

> Give a man a fish; feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish; feed him for a lifetime." &mdash; [Anne Isabella Thackeray Ritchie](https://quoteinvestigator.com/2015/08/28/fish/)

I am about halfway through *The Passionate Programmer*. *Part III: Execution* is my favorite section so far with *Tip 11: Learn to Fish* resonated with me in particular. I think the principle conveyed in the in the learn-to-fish proverb is an important frame for thinking about learning: The purpose is ultimately to be able to do something yourself. This is apparently obvious, but I think understanding how the pieces of the puzzle fit together in a larger system is an important reminder for self-suffiency.

This idea is also exciting for me because I tend to be interested in understanding the top-down perspective from the ideas to the business and planning, to where I fit in in the design and development. I know that I also have to be careful in making a distinction between developing a broader versus a deeper understanding of different domains because I can't go deep in all the areas that I would like &mdash; at least not at the same time.

---

## Challenges

I didn't run into anything too challenging in my first week. I did, however, learn the basics of Zsh and transfer my Bash configuration settings over. I also created and version controlled my own dotfiles.

My _.bashrc_ didn't have many customizations to begin with, but I did run into some problems transferring the settings to _.zshrc_. For example, I was using a program called _git-aware-prompt_ to display my current Git branch in my prompt, which wasn't working as expected with Zsh. I did a little research and decided to try a framework called [Oh My Zsh](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh) to manage my configuration instead.

I also started version controlling my dotfiles using [_yadm_](https://github.com/TheLocehiliosan/yadm) (Yet Another Dotfiles Manager), which uses a `git init --bare` repository similar to the way described in [this article](https://developer.atlassian.com/blog/2016/02/best-way-to-store-dotfiles-git-bare-repo/). I then used the setup to commit my first three dotfiles [here](https://github.com/bantuist/dotfiles):
* _.zshrc_
* _.gitconfig_
* _.config/nvim/init.vim_

The last thing I did was make sure my neovim setup was working correctly. Nothing complicated, but I had only ever set it up once and I had to do a little troubleshooting to get everything working on a different machine. Reminder for next time: [Neovim Setup](https://gist.github.com/bantuist/b058cd2661b84b5b94682e1824cbe1fa).

---

## Accomplishments

* Computer setup and dotfiles: I setup the Sparkbox computer that I will be using during the apprenticeship as well as my started to version control my dotfiles.

* Git and GitHub: I completed a couple Git courses, read some articles about how Sparkbox uses Git and GitHub, and made my first pull request at Sparkbox.
