# *Great artists steal*

*January 26, 2018*

* [Goals (5/7)](../goals.md)

* [Today I Learned](../today-i-learned/january.md)

Week 3 was a very exciting week. We started our first collaborative project building a hot dog stand command line app. The primary objective is to learn object-oriented programming (OOP) principles through practice using them to build a command-line program.

## Challenge

The biggest challenge is still figuring out how to work together. We took about an hour to read and digest the [project requirements](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_E2dT_q9ZAB_N33UCIA6OTYsCbmIAHN-cCpjrrcmZRM/edit) on our own before meeting in the conference room to create our [Plan of Action](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1052zJ2pbhBVwVex6Rkc1wvsuUoYza2ARs46F_GvRPpQ/edit). It took us at least another hour to share and negotiate ideas. Corinne created a nice outline for an example flow through the program, which we drew out on the wall. We then talked about how we could represent the hot dog stand in terms of OOP. We tried to adhere to a model-view-controller architecture which basically consists of two model classes ( `Order` and `HotDog`) and one controller (`MenuController`). We talked about a few other features such as a `Customer` model and creating a plain text file to write our orders too, but decided to try and meet the main requirements first.

Travis shared flow-chart tool that helped us formalize the logical flow of our program [here](https://coggle.it/diagram/WmjP39EwUgABg1xz/t/menu-controller). This was a great way to ensure that we all have the same mental map of the overall program and combined with Corinne's outline helped me better understand what we were trying to accomplish.

The next thing we did was choose what parts of the program we wanted to work on. Corinne did the main menu and the hot dog type selection, Travis did the condiments seleciton, and I did the bun selection. The most interesting part for me was working to put the puzzle togther and realizing how important it is check in with each other before one (or all) stray too far away from the path we set.

One thing I liked in particular about collaborating with Corinne and Travis was the sharing of new ideas as we were working. Travis, for example, suggested abstracting our selection menus to a common method that we could require in for all of us to use in the menu. I also liked Corinne's creativity figuring out the menu design and content structure.

One thing I think we need to work on is having a well-defined way to manage our project and workflow. We have been exposed to how Sparkbox uses Git and GitHub (such as rebasing, pull requests, and formatting commit messages), but we aren't using them consistently yet. I think a great goal for next week is to talk about how to manage our projects, how and when to pair with each other and review each other's code.

My biggest lesson this week was gaining a new appreciation for how much we can potentially learn from each other through collaboration, understanding each other, and harnesing the knowledge that is already hidden away each other's heads.

## Reading

> Good artists copy, while great artists steal &mdash; [Pablo Picasso](https://quoteinvestigator.com/2013/03/06/artists-steal/)

The next best way to access the knowledge (after direct collaboration) is to read. This was the most striking idea from my reading this week (**The Passionate Programmer** Tip 32: Say It, Do It, Show It). The author discusses how most agree that reading source code can make you a better programmer, but its the act of copying source code that builds the muscle memory and gives a more nuanced understanding of the source. Reading is also touched on in **Apprenticeship Patterns** in a few sections like *Use the Source* and *Study the Classics*. I don't recall anything about copying explicitly, however, so this week's reading felt like an even more practical perspective on a useful idea.

## Accomplishments

* [Hot Diggity Dog](https://github.com/corinneling/apprentice-hot-dog-stand): Collaboration to build a minimum viable hot dog stand program.